
		Wednesday, January 25, 2006 3:47:55 PM
Message
From:		Stephen Miller <triorbtl@sover.net>
Subject:	another new page (new improved)
To:		Margaret Whittaker

I removed an awkward phrase.

2/3 Sphere
	A few years ago I published 2 articles about my plydomes in BackHome  
magazine. A young family in Montpelier, about 12 miles from here,  
recognized me as the fellow who painted the sign for their cafe on  
Elm St. Brett and Melynda had been to our home before, but the  
published article seemed to give my designs added credibility. For  
years they had been doing their homework, investigating homebuilding  
methods and all the systems involved. I was honored that they picked  
a plydome as the most economical design they could find. They told me  
they were looking for land in the Rutland area, and asked me if I  
would commit to building a plydome with their help if they purchased  
land. Cynthia and I discussed this and I agreed. Months later, in the  
spring, Melynda and Brett had bought 24 acres in Wells, VT, 105 miles  
from here, and set up an elaborate campsite under a 50ft.x20ft.  
plastic tarp. This was May of 2004, right before I began work on my  
new aluminum roof.(4vTriacon28,jpg)
	We settled on a 33 ft. diameter 2/3 sphere. with 2 floors. With 23  
feet of height there was ample room. I drove to the site, marked out  
the 10 points on the ground with string and line level, tape measures  
and plumb bob, and we: Brett, Melynda, Jesse, Kyle and Sean dug the  
holes for the wooden posts in the gravelly ground and set the 6x6  
treated posts. When it wasn't raining, work continued in my absence.  
Brett took over the  construction of a sturdy base made of roughsawn  
hemlock from their land. Having three sons was a help I am sure,  
since long hemlock 2x8's, still soaking wet from the sawmill, are  
heavy. Weeks after we set the posts I returned to start the dome and  
was inspired by the rock solid base we were to mount the dome on.  
(Brettfloor.jpg)(assembly1.jpg)(assembly2.jpg)
	The dome is a 4v Triacon with the base triangles altered to provide  
the simple 10 sided base. The base is slightly smaller than the  
widest point of the dome, and has a visually pleasing inward curve.  
This is a completely triangulated plydome, the first I have made.
	The weather was hot, and there was no shade. I camped with them  
while we worked. The assembly of the plywood , 2x4 struts, hubs and  
metal vertex panels took seven long days. I had to make the most of  
my time there, so I would start at dawn and stop when it was too dark  
to see properly. Everyone helped. Melynda worked all day, often  
cutting metal with snips, and also cooked excellent meals three times  
a day at the campsite. This was the key to how fast the dome went  
together. Back in Montpelier, old customers were missing her cooking  
in the Cafe, but it lived on at the dome raising.(assembly3.jpg) 
(assembly4.jpg)
	There must have been some stimulation at the spectacle of the dome.  
After dark we were all tired, but the boys and I stayed up late  
playing chess. I love the game, but I will never get over how young  
teenagers can develop into better players than I am after 40 years of  
playing. I was severely challenged.
	After the shell was together, I disappeared again and they installed  
windows and doors and the second floor. Brett had experience building  
a house and is a licensed electrician. Melynda learned some carpentry  
that summer, and did most of the work on the second floor, as well as  
the insulation and interior. It was remarkable to me how thorough  
their homework had been. They got low prices on windows and doors and  
canvas, and in every way seemed to find ways to make their home at  
minimum expense.(roofing1.jpg)
	In the Fall we put the roof on. To my surprise they had decided to  
cover the entire dome with aluminum, all the way to the base. This  
took seven normal 8 hr. days, with the boys cutting the shingles,and  
me doing most of the shingling. Placing the shingles was just too  
confusing for anyone else to do, and most of the work was off the  
ground. Each shingle has a specific location based on the geodesic  
pattern, which is hard to see in a plydome. The windows were flashed  
with the same aluminum. (roofing3.jpg)(roofing5.jpg)(roofing11.jpg) 
The work had to be carefully done because there was no tarpaper  
underneath. As soon as the dome would shed water, they moved into the  
upstairs to get off the ground after five months of camping during a  
rainy summer. The relief was palpable; so was the weariness. I wonder  
if I was able to beat Jesse several games because he was worn down by  
the camping.
	Right away the dome was pounded by high winds and driving rain, and  
I called to find out how the roof was working. No leaks. And Brett  
reported that he never heard a creak in the dome. They installed a  
pellet stove and insulated with Reflectix. I was unable to persuade  
them to cut a hole in the top of their dome for ventilation and  
access, but they seem happy with the results. This is a relief to me,  
because I live 105 miles away and it is difficult to fix things. In  
one summer I covered 2 homes with an experimental roof. That is a  
little reckless, but I got away with it.(home 00000.jpg) They have  
since added a few other structures.



