
		Wednesday, January 25, 2006 6:52:18 AM
Message
From:		Stephen Miller <triorbtl@sover.net>
Subject:	new page
To:		Margaret Whittaker

	After living in the sphere for six years, I decided to make a better  
roof. The metal cone was good at keeping snow off the top, but  
sometimes chunks of ice would fall off and chip the paint off the  
plywood. The metal cone was so large that it trapped hot air in the  
summer, and it was made of galvanized steel, which would wear  
out.Worst of all, despite my efforts to correct it, the metal boomed   
in high winds. The casement windows on the second floor would have to  
be closed during rain because there was only a stingy overhang.
	Home Depot had started offering trimcoil, painted aluminum flashing  
in 24"x50 ft. rolls. This motivated me to finalize a design that had  
been developing in my mind for many years. I bought several rolls and  
cut them into diamonds, and screwed them into place on a Starplate  
icosahedron shed.(Starplate4.jpg) (Phto0051.jpg) The roof worked  
perfectly.
	After a wet summer I decided to use the aluminum roof on our house.  
I was eager to get started. At 51, I thought it wise to do this task  
while I still could. It was necessary to install a permanent roof  
because the dome is sheathed with 1/4" plywood. A standard roof  
design that would require periodic replacement would soon destroy the  
dome.
	First I framed awnings to protect the windows.(awnings1.jpg) Plywood  
was expensive at the time, August 2004, and I was fortunate to find  
1200 bf of tongue and groove cedar at a good price. The cedar is a  
pleasant change from the plywood. Then I removed the metal cone along  
with several wasp nests. The wasps weren't bad, but a cloud of  
hornets made me jump off an awning onto the adjoining lower plydome.  
It was like a six foot drop onto a trampoline. Plydomes are bouncy.  
(tearingoff.jpg)
	Using ropes and ladders I carried 5 sheets of 3/8" plywood to the  
top of the sphere and made the new ventilator-a smaller one with a  
rotorlike design I call the fat helicopter. (ventilator1.jpg) I  
covered it with brown aluminum. Then I put down some ice and water  
shield around the top of the sphere, and began screwing the diamond  
shaped shingles, starting at the top. This aspect of the roof design  
was helpful, because aluminum is soft and easily damaged. I didn't  
have to climb or kneel on the aluminum.
	Around the high part of the sphere I worked  on a 4 ft. stepladder  
suspended by a pair of ropes, tied to the steel tubes that supported  
the ventilator.(alumroof5.jpg) I felt uneasy at times, particularly  
on the south side where the land drops off. But the ropes held, and I  
was able to carefully fit the metal pieces to the somewhat irregular  
plydome surface. A standard geodesic with flat triangles and more  
distinct edges would have been easier.
	My wife Cynthia was upset by the ugliness of the roof when I tore  
the cone off, and did not hang around to take pictures, so the photos  
are largely uninhabited on this project.(AROO28.jpg)(AROO31.jpg) 
(southside.jpg)
	The roof has worked very well. During snowfalls, snow continually  
slides off the steep, slippery surface. As a young man roofing houses  
during the seventies I noticed how well aluminum held up in this  
region, and always thought aluminum shingles would work. I can drive  
by roofs I worked on then and see the aluminum looking almost new  
after 30 years. So I am planning on the roofs I have installed on the  
sphere, the dome and the Starplate to last as long as the buildings. 
(Snow1.jpg)(Snow2.jpg)(Sugarseason.jpg) And in high winds our home is  
quiet.



